# three.Densaugeo.VRT.js

Volume ray tracing system. Visualizes scalar fields and includes a texture generator

Dependencies: `three.js` , `three.Densaugeo.js` 

---

## THREE.Densaugeo.VRTVolume

Inherits: `THREE.Mesh`

Mesh for volume ray tracing

```
var volume = new THREE.Densaugeo.VRTVolume({
. intensity: 10,
. dataTexture: new THREE.Densaugeo.VRTTexture({
.   resolution: 64,
.   formula: function(x, y, z) {return 1},
. }),
. resolution: 64,
});
```

#### Properties

`THREE.Densaugeo.VRTTexture` **dataTexture** -- Holds dataset for ray tracing

`THREE.BoxGeometry` **geometry** -- Uses a unit cube, centered on its origin

`Number` **intensity** -- Scale factor for rednering. Passed to shader

`THREE.Densaugeo.VRTMaterial` **material** -- Uses custom shader material

`Number` **resolution** -- Size of one dimension of 3D dataset. Cubic sets only. Passed to shader

`String` **type** -- 'VRTVolume'

#### Methods

`proto` **tick**`(THREE.Camera camera)` -- Tick needed for each render call. This one passes camera position in local coordinates to shaders

---

## THREE.Densaugeo.VRTMaterial

Inherits: `THREE.ShaderMaterial`

Material for volume ray tracing

#### Properties

`String` **fragmentShader** -- Source code for fragment shader

`Number` **side** -- Defaults to THREE.DoubleSide to support views from inside the VRTVolume

`Boolean` **transparent** -- Kind of essential for VRT

`String` **type** -- 'VRTMaterial'

`Object` **uniforms** -- Uniform variables to pass to shader

`String` **vertexShader** -- Source code for vertex shader

---

## THREE.Densaugeo.VRTTexture

Inherits: `THREE.DataTexture`

Texture for volume ray tracing. Scalar field generated by a supplied formula, encoded as 32-bit integers split between rgba values

```
var dataTexture = new THREE.Densaugeo.VRTTexture({
. resolution: 64,
. formula: function(x, y, z) {return 1},
});
```

#### Options

`Function` **formula** -- Formula is called with <x, y, z> or <r, θ, φ> with values from -1/2 to +1/2 on each cartesian axis

`THREE.Matrix4` **matrix** -- Transforms coordinates used to generates dataset. Default is a unit cube centered around the origin

`Number` **resolution** -- Size of one dimension of 3D dataset. May be 16, 64, or 256

`Boolean` **useSpherical** -- If true, formula is called with spherical coordinates. Otherwise formula is called with Cartesian coordinates

